# sudo-install-Ubuntu-Os-Web-server

# Install Apache2
- sudo apt update 
- sudo apt install apache2
- sudo efw enable
- sudo efw app list
- sudo ufw allow 'Apache Full'
- sudo ufw status
- systemctl status apache2
> You can also utilize your favorite web browser for the specified verification. To do so, open a web browser and check what the “localhost” web page beholds for you.

# Install Ssh
- sudo apt update
- sudo apt install openssh-server openssh-client
- sudo systemctl status ssh
- sudo ufw allow ssh
- sudo ufw status
- sudo ufw enable
> You can see that SSH port 22 is opened. If you have the same output as shown in the picture, then the system is ready for remote connections via SSH.

# Install dan Setting ip
- ifconfig
- sudo nano /etc/netplan/00-installer-config.yaml
- sudo netplan apply
- sudo netplan –debug apply
- ifconfig

# Install Mysql
- sudo apt update
- sudoapt -get install server mysql
- systemctl is-active mysql
- sudo mysql_secure_installation
- sudo mysql
> As you can see, the following query will set the root password to “Password123#@!” and the authentication method to “mysql_native_password”.
Reload the grant tables in the MySQL database so that the changes can be applied without restarting the “mysql” service.
> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
# mysql -u root -p
- systemctl status mysql.service

# Install PHP
- sudo apt update
- sudo apt upgrade 
- Before installing PHP, you need to install the required dependencies. To do this run the following command.
> - sudo apt install software-properties-common ca-certificates lsb-release apt-transport-https.
> - sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ondrej/php
> - sudo apt update
The SURY repository has PHP 8.1, 8.0, 7.4, 7.3, 7.2, 7.1, 7.0 and 5.6. You can use the following commands to install any of the required PHP versions.
> - sudo apt install php8.1
> - sudo apt install php8.1-mysql php8.1-mbstring php8.1-xml php8.1-curl
You can verify the PHP installation by entering the following command:

# Configuration Wordpress 
- sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-available/wordpress.conf
> Copy-Paste the following lines <VirtualHost *:80>
> ServerAdmin admin@example.com
> DocumentRoot /var/www/html/wordpress
> ServerName example.com
> ServerAlias www.example.com
> <Directory /var/www/html/wordpress/>
> Options FollowSymLinks
> AllowOverride All
> Require all granted
> </Directory>
> ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
> CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

> # </VirtualHost>
- sudo a2ensite wordpress.conf
- sudo a2enmod rewrite
Disable the default Apache test page:
#sudo a2dissite 000-default.conf
Restart the Apache webserver to apply the changes:
- sudo systemctl restart apache2
> After following the above steps, open your system browser that can access the server IP address of the system where you have installed the WordPress.And point it to as following:
- http://your-server-ip-address
> # start setting up: 
1. Select WordPress Language you want to use and then click on the Continue button
2. Next, click on the Let’s Go button that will create a wp-config file to store the database details.The Database, its user, and password we have created in this tutorial to store the data generated by WordPress; add its details in the WordPress setup wizard when it asks for, after that click on the “Submit” button.
3. Finally, click on the “Run the installation” button.
4. Add the Site Title you want to give to your website and then add the username along with a password to use for it. After that add the email address and then hit the “Install WordPress“.
5. Finally, the Admin login page will appear; add the user and password you have created.
